The ownership of government data, and claims concerning copyright and licensing of data (and of law) raise a number of interesting questions.  One crucial issue in this area is where the boundaries of freely accessible law end and where copyright protection concerning added content starts.  
But before turning to that question, it is important to reflect on the basic understanding that the law belongs to the public and should be available and accessible to everyone for free.  Public.Resource.org founder Carl Malamud suggests free and open access to the laws, on which question he has had multiple clashes with other organizations.  His experience with building the SEC’s EDGAR database teaches government agencies a lesson about how simple and, based on the incredible demand for the EDGAR data, necessary it is to provide citizens with public filings and data.  Based on this experiment, most citizens would likely agree with making all public data and law immediately available to everyone – however, this is where the question of “how” comes in.
In the EDGAR example, Malamud was able to build the database using an NSF grant.  The question arises – if, as a reasonable request, the public wants every public law and code immediately available, how should government agencies make this happen?  The public has to know what laws, rules, and codes have to followed – keeping in mind that government agencies usually have significant budgetary constraints, how can the task of making laws available be accomplished?  What resources should be spent on this task vs. other important items on an agency’s agenda?  And if the solution is hiring private legal research companies, how can we find the right balance between public domain and copyrighted material when it comes to laws?
The 2013 examples of the states of Georgia, Idaho, and Mississippi provide a warning about the importance of not blurring the lines between government entities and private organizations.  Based on the Victor Li article, it seems that posting the annotated state codes collected and published by Lexis and West as private companies in contract with the government, but even posting the native statutory content itself (!), required a license as copyrighted material.  Does this mean that the private companies have a copyright over the law of these states?  According to the states it does not, since in some instances clean, unannotated copies of the code were also provided by the private publishers; however, it does show the possible and imminent dangers of how the value added by private publishers to codes by providing annotations, headlines, summaries, footnotes, cross-references, etc., can lead to a legal jungle in which research would be almost impossible without taking advantage of the added content.  
Another concern the blurring line between public and copyrighted material raises is how this kind of distinction may or may not serve the legal profession at large.  Large law firms, companies with in-house legal teams, law schools can and do afford purchasing the services and databases of these private publishing companies.  Does it make life harder for a solo practitioner to do legal research and practice law if they cannot pay to get access to the same kind of database by private companies?  Will the solo legal practitioner in Georgia, Idaho, or Mississippi have access to the state codes without paying for the services of Lexis or West?  Or will he or she be foreclosed from getting access to the “publicly available law” that may not be so publicly available?  Finding the right answers to these questions will largely influence the practice of law in today and tomorrow’s digitalized world.
